---
layout: post
title:  "New Site"
date:   2020-06-01 15:47:32 -0400
categories: blog
---
Due to the technical difficulties involved in maintaining the old version of connoryager.com, I've decided to mostly rebuild it and utilize the tools offered by Jekyll and Github to learn something new and make it a little simpler.  While my old blog was a lot of fun the maintenance of it was getting a little too much to handle.  The old site was run using an Apache server running on an old laptop in my parents house on a wireless connection to the router, where I had forwarded all HTTP and HTTPS requests to the laptop.  This was a lot of fun to setup, but not so much fun to fix everytime my mom unplugged the laptop to run the vacuum cleaner.

The old site was a lot of fun though.  Basically every time I learned a new technology or technique, either in classes or that I taught myself, I would try to implement it on the site.  For example, I was pretty excited when I learned a bunch about running a database in my internship after my first year, so I set the site up with a database that would store comments and allow users to sign in.  Then my third year I took an intro to cybersecurity class that had a unit on SQL injections, and I realized that just using simple text input fields without sanitizing inputs was really not a very good idea.  So I fixed that up.  Then I realized I was overpaying massively for the services my hosting company was providing, so I decided to set up my own home server.  This learning by trial and error and using the site as a way to practice what I learned as I learned it was a lot of fun, and has contributed massively to my interest in web development.  But alas, it became a little too complex for its own good, and the maintenance on my end and the usability on the user's end was becoming too weighed down.

SO, I am starting from scatch using the cheapest and most efficient technology I could find.  GitHub is a service I'm already familiar with, and just pushing to deploy a static site is a pretty intriguing concept.  It's gonna take a little time for me to make this one as catchy and colorful as the last one, but hopefully as I go this will become more useful as a portfolio.  If you're coming from the old connoryager.com, welcome to connoryager.com-2.0!  Thanks for checking in!  Otherwise, thanks for taking the time to visit the site and I hope you find it a pleasant stay.