---
layout: post
title:  "AWS Developer Associate Course"
date:   2020-06-26 18:15:00 -0400
categories: blog
---

[Link to the Udemy Course I'm using to prepare](https://www.udemy.com/course/aws-certified-developer-associate-dva-c01/)

Because I have this big chunk of time between the end of school and when I'm hoping to be starting my job, I decided that I should spend some of that time preparing for future work and making myself a better developer.  Through my internships I've noticed a growing trend:  the cloud is everything.  In fact, through my personal work I've come face to face with that trend too.  Take the website I was running for my fraternity.  It became pretty clear after a few outages that running the site from a webserver on an old laptop in my house wasn't a very good idea.  I just wasn't able to develop, deploy new features, and worry about the server at the same time. (not to mention the server was at my parent's house, so unless I could fix problems by ssh'ing into it from school I was basically relaying instructions to my mom.  Not great.)  At the time I took a lot of pride in being able to run the project at such a low cost, so it was a big hit to my ego to cough up $7 a month for a Heroku subscription.  In hindsight, not a big price to pay for the ease of deployment and guarantee of availability that heroku provided.

Today, I'm looking to scale that project out to offer the same services to many more organizations.  It was clear to me when I started this that I would need to be able to leverage the cloud to support my project, and that the more control I had over how that was done, the better our service would be and the more affordable we could make it.  Having worked around AWS before, I decided that that was the technology we were going to use, and began learning the basics of their elastic beanstalk offering.  It didn't take long before I was thoroughly overwhelmed by the number of services AWS provides, as well as the depth and complexity of each.  Between past experiences of the viability and future of the cloud, as well as my present needs, I realized that the cloud was something that I would need to be familiar with, and would benefit greatly from knowing as much as possible about.

This is what inspired me to start the Udemy course linked above.  I try to knock out one section a day, and hopefully by the time I'm done with it I'll have enough knowledge to pass the AWS Developer Associciate exam and earn my certification.  I believe that this will help to make me a more well-rounded developer, as well as make me a more attractive candidate for positions that require the use or understanding of the cloud.  Thus far, I'm surprised at how much I've learned, and how much more familiar the AWS console is feeling.  I'm looking forward to being a certified cloud expert, and am really enjoying this path of growth that I've started on!